Israel says its forces have encircled
gaza's City prime minister Netanyahu has
rallied his troops telling them nothing
will stop their advance and he repeated
his warning to people to leave the area
world leaders are stepping up diplomatic
efforts to ease the siege of Gaza to
allow more Aid to reach civilians the
United Nations says four of its schools
being used as Emergency Shelters have
been damaged by the latest Israeli air
strikes with at least 24 people
killed tww special correspondent AIA
Ibrahim is in Jerusalem and I asked her
for an update on Israel's offensive in
Gaza well it's just important to remind
our viewers Nicole that we the
international press are not allowed
inside the Gaza Strip at the moment so
any information that we have is
information that we have from the IDF or
other sources and what they have told us
so far is that Israeli soldiers have now
encircled God Gaza uh City that's really
the heart of the Gaza Strip it's in the
northern part of the strip the part that
uh Israeli forces have been asking
civilians to evacuate from to the South
but we do know that not everyone has
evacuated either uh they are unwilling
or uh unable uh but Israeli forces say
they believe that that northern part in
in Gaza City and around Gaza City is
where a large concentration of Hamas
Fighters are to be found we know also
that 18 Israeli soldiers have been
killed in the fighting since the
beginning of the ground Invasion so at
least 18 uh soldiers in addition of
course to others who have been killed uh
since this War uh began we also know
from uh uh um the Hamas run Health
Ministry in Gaza that a uh un run School
uh near the jabala refugee camp that
refugee camp camp that has recently uh
been struck uh we know that a school
around that camp has been struck as well
and at least
27 uh people have been killed that's
again according to the um to the health
Ministry in Gaza and the strip is run uh
uh by uh Hamas and so it is U it is you
know it is changing every minute but
that is the info that we have from both
sides so far yeah and a there are
reports again today of rising violence
in the occupied West Bank with three
Palestinians and one Israeli killed
throughout the day let's take a look at
the situation there and then get back to
you Rescuers rushed to the scene after
an Israeli reservist was shot dead on
his way back to his settlement home for
Palestinians living close by the
consequences were Swift and familiar
Israeli settlers stormed their Village
setting buildings of
Blaze it's just the latest outbreak of
violence in the West Bank where clashes
between between settlers and
Palestinians have soared since hamas's
terrorist
attacks many Palestinians feel like
they're being forced out of their homes
like in this Village close to heon where
locals say attacks by settlers have only
gotten worse in recent
weeks we used to have problems with them
but after the war in Gaza they want to
kill all of
us
After the War Began the situation
changed they started attacking our
houses and the people inside
them the Israeli Army has also become
increasingly active in the West Bank
since October 7th drastically ramping up
its raids with Israeli forces detaining
hundreds of Palestinians over alleged
terrorist links clashes have broken out
frequently often with deadly
consequences for the Palestinians dozens
of people have been killed according to
the Palestinian Health Ministry but with
all eyes on Gaza the record violence in
the West Bank is at risk of being
overlooked a how much of a sense is
there that the war in Gaza is spilling
over into the West
Bank as we heard in that report there
really is a sense that with all eyes on
what's going on in Gaza because of the
severity of the situation there uh
settlers in the West Bank may be taking
advantage of that situation so according
to the un uh settler violence which was
already at a record high last year has
increased this year from an average of
three incidents per day to seven
incidents per day and so we're hearing
reports of harassment violence and at
times uh forced evictions if you will as
Palestinians feel that it is no longer
safe for them to stay in their homes
both the both Germany and the United
United States have warned against this
and have called on the Israeli
government to protect Palestinians
living in the West Bank now US Secretary
of State Anthony blinkin will be in
Israel on Friday what can we
expect this will be his third visit to
Israel and his second to the region
since the War uh began and since the
terror attacks on October uh 7th we can
expect that the messaging from the
Secretary of State will remain the same
from what it was at the since the
beginning of the war which is that the
United States stands by Israel stands by
Israel's right uh to defend itself but
what we will perhaps be hearing more of
is the United States calling on Israel
to uh take civilian lives more into
account that is a demand that we've
heard uh more and more increasingly from
the Biden Administration as you know
this war enters into its third week and
as everyday picture
of the constant air strikes on Gaza are
reaching uh the world we can expect that
there will be an emphasis on the
importance of protecting civilian lives
uh in uh Gaza the secretary of state
will also be going to Jordan after that
our viewers may remember that when US
President Biden was set to visit uh uh
Jordan some of the meetings were
cancelled because of the incident uh uh
explosion at alah hospital so this is
again another uh attempt by the
administration to try and find a
regional solution to this tomorrow we
also know that the head of hasah
hassanah will be speaking and so this
might also this visit might also be
looked at as um as a sense as as as
deterrence as the Administration has
emphasized time and time again that
Regional power re Regional uh uh player
should not take advantage of the current
situation that was a Ibrahim and
Jerusalem thanks for
that hundreds more foreign passport
holders have left Gaza through the Rafa
Crossing into Egypt crowds have gathered
at the border but only those on an
official list are being allowed to pass
the biggest group of around 400 were US
citizens today the crossing has been
open for the first time since the start
of the current conflict between Israel
and
Hamas desperate to get out of Gaza the
rough for border crossing is the only
Escape for these families many have been
at this bus terminal for hours waiting
to have their documents approved and be
allowed to board the next bus heading
across the border into
Egypt I have an American passport my
daughter has one too my husband
submitted his papers but he still didn't
get his passport I'm pregnant how am I
supposed to get out without my husband
I appeal to anyone I want to get out
with my husband and my
daughter and I don't know what's going
to happen and just about an hour ago you
heard it probably a aom came down almost
explode everything and I have hard
condition you know guy
[Music]
could so I don't know what's going to
happen I'm just the other
side several hundred Jew nationality
Palestinians foreign National and
critically injured Garin have crossed
the
border Egyptian officials say they will
assist around 7,000 people to leave but
the process may take
weeks we do not have any information
regarding the opening of The Crossing in
the coming days our operations are being
managed on a day-to-day basis we
sincerely hope that our Egyptian
Brothers will keep the crossing open on
a continuous basis especially for those
who are severely wounded we have
approximately 20,000 injured individuals
with thousands of them in critical
condition ambulances waiting at the
Crossing rushed severely injured
Palestinians to Egyptian
hospitals with more than a third of
hospitals in Gaza not operating at all
many more people need urgent care but
Egypt remains firm that its medical
evacuations will be temporary with no
Mass Exodus from Gaza
and we can speak now to hea TV she's the
country director for the NGO care in the
Palestinian territories and joins us
from rala and the West Bank hea good to
see you now some Aid has been delivered
through the ga to the Gaza Strip through
the Rafa Crossing we saw there do you
know at all how many Gins can benefit
from
it um thank you so much for for this
question I think that over the last days
we have he the estimations by the UN on
the necessity of constant and bigger
numbers much bigger numbers hundreds of
trucks on daily basis to uh be able to
secure the requirements for the mass uh
population that is affected but
unfortunately uh the number of trucks
that entered is very limited it it of
course serves it it is very welcome to
serve the the people but the number
stays at a very very low and minimal
number in the same time f is still not
on the on the list for which is very
important at least to cover the needs in
the hospitals and water yeah your
organization has published a report on
how specifically women and children are
affected by the war what did you
find so uh everyone is affected by the
war but then there are layers of
vulnerabilities that are added for women
who women who are pregnant women who are
household heading heading the household
uh women with disabilities with hearing
disabilities with physical disabilities
and definitely the children and of
course the newborns so the different
ages they have and the different groups
of women and children they are affected
more severely in terms of nutrition um
uh being more vulnerable to catch up
diseases the spreading ones uh more
vulnerable to uh um to the overcrowded
shelters related uh potential uh
gender-based violence and protection
issues um access to Services become more
difficult for women who are heading
their households in in in the in the
during the crisis and War unfortunately
women for instance would be as you know
the last to eat when it comes or the
last to benefit from an humanitarian
Necessities that reach the family in
very small quantities today when I was
on the phone with my colleague uh her
granddaughter was crying for food I'm
hungry I'm hungry and she told me you
know I didn't drink water for 3 days
just to save the water for the babies
that we have here we have 1.5 uh one one
and a half month baby and four months
baby and we just try to save the water
for them this is the situation
unfortunately where they are severely
affected unattended kids it's a huge
full story also where families are not
able to to report their missing kids and
unattended kids are not connected to
their family so the the situation is
really harsh and it becomes even harsher
for women and kids of different of
different groups Yeah you mentioned your
colleagues in Gaza they are working
under unimaginable conditions what is it
that you can do for them from where you
are so all what we we we are trying our
best to be connected to our colleagues
on daily basis with the blackout of the
communication that was a terrifying
moment for us what we try to do is to
secure as much as we can what we call uh
hygiene kits survival kits dignity kits
water food these are the colleagues who
used to jump to help others now because
they are displaced internally displaced
and evacuated to the South we find them
among those who need who need support as
I mentioned they they are unable to
access bread some of them they did not
eat bread since 4 days now um and and we
try our best but the the um the the
Commodities are going are going missing
from Gaza so we are trying to find for
instance Water bottled water drinking
water for them and it's not possible
they rely could get two gallons of water
one of them after long long uh um
attempts that lasted for two days was
hea Tibi from Care thank you so much and
all the best to you and your
team